Welcome back.
Before we code our own binary surgery, let's just go over the performance implications and why we might
want to use it over other data structures.
Its strengths are that it has really good performance across the board.
You saw that most operations or all operations in a binary search three are better than O of n.
Assuming that the binary search tree is balanced, it is also ordered.
And because we can place the node anywhere in memory, we can just have flexible size.
We can keep growing our tree.
The downside is that, as you may have noticed, it has no one operation.
We usually have to do some sort of traversal through the tree for any sort of operation.
So compared to an array, a lookup, for example, will be a lot faster because we have zero log in
for searches versus if we iterate through an entire array.
If the array is unsorted, inserts and deletes are also faster than an array unless the array is adding
to the end.
Otherwise, arrays have to shift all the indexes versus a binary search tree that is just o of log in.
What about compared to hash tables?
Well, although hash tables allow us to insert and search at constant time with binary searches, we
have sorted data.
And we also have this structure of parent child relationship that you won't be able to get too much
with hash tables.
A good thing to keep in mind is that binary searches aren't the fastest for anything.
Remember their operations are usually always o of log in.
On average, an array or an object will have faster operation, but there are certain conditions where
they do outperform objects in arrays.
So binary searches do perform really well as long as you make sure that you stay away from the cases
that we discussed and we balance our binary search tree.
But enough talk, enough slides, I think, to fully grasp and understand how trees work.
We should code our own.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.